
## A brief history of the mystical sciences and their dualist, monist, and monolatrist divine figures: a pre-cognitivist approach

Within the historiography of the cults of the mystical sciences, particularly around [[Mystryl]], there exists significant debate about the nature of the phenomenon we experience as an exercise of those mystical sciences and the nature of the divine spirit of the mystical sciences. Within the cult, there has long been a traditional view of a monolatrist approach to the nature of Mystryl and the magics of the ley-lines around us. Particularly, with Mystryl's many forms, servants, aspects, and depictions, it is clear that Mystryl's relationship with magic has predominantly been one of a monolatristic power: that is, that his power exists due to his supremacy among associates of the magical sources, rather than some unique trait particular to his existence as a magical god. This means that, rather than magic sourcing from Mystryl or one of his creations, instead there exists a hidden "lord" of these mystical sciences which exhibits the direct power of the mystical, rather than the observed power of Mystryl. This hidden source could theoretically be a phenomenological spirit that exhibits these traits and powers yet remains detached from both mortal and immortal affairs, but it seems increasingly likely that this power, if it exists, exists as a form of a pre-cognitive entity, potentially existing pre-cognitively within the understanding of the monolatrist divine images themselves, such as Mystryl himself. This opens a rather odd approach to the preconditions of divinity for a divine figure itself to precognitively generate a higher divine figure, but the implications of such a revelation are left as an exercise by the reader. Instead, let us approach the subjects of debate with rising Dualist and Monist approaches to the existence of Mystryl within the context of the divine prerogatives. The approach that is gaining the most traction as a conceptualization of the powers of the divine within Mystryl and his mystical sciences today is the Dualistic nature of his divinity. Particularly, the Dualistic understanding of Mystryl holds that Mystryl and the woven ley-lines exist together, either as Mystryl as the creator of a divine methodology for the practice of the mystical sciences from his vast power, which was then devolved to the lower races of the universe as an expression of creation, or that they are expressions of the same precognitivist phenomenon (that is, that Mystryl exists as some sort of individualistic or cognitivistic entity which represents the aether of magic, or vice versa with the aether functioning as a sort of collective for some divine substance of Mystryl). In either case, both present a particularly interesting approach, and still maintain some kind of precognitivist tradition within the belief and practices of their religious cult. Finally, we can see the Monist approach, likely very clearly now. The monist approach to the cult's understanding of Mystryl, while the least prominent, tends to be the most interesting in its scope. Firstly, the monist tradition proposes that Mystryl and the aether of magic function not just as two expression of the same precognitivist structure, but purely as a singular existence. Some interpretations specifically view this mystical aether as an extension of Mystryl's divine substance, such that any practitioner of the mystical sciences is themselves functioning as a divine image of Mystryl himself. They, but following the right incantations and presenting the right offerings, can harness the substance of Mystryl to exercise their own divine prerogatives from within the body of the divine aether. In any case, each of these three constitute the foundations for a precognitivist understanding of the mystical sciences of Mystryl

[[Locum Arcanum]]
