Despite the colloquial terminology typical for the places of Acheron and Carceri, we argue that, instead, their purposes are in many ways reversed, to fit the true ethic of each plane. It is easy to see the conditions of Acheron as prison-like, but one can truly grasp the purpose of Acheron within divine geography and ethic once the understanding of a primordial panopticism is introduced, and fully synthesized with the conditions of Acheron. Acheron features many flatly planed forms, each hosting vast armies, camps, and general regimentation of the populace. Additionally, these armies are not the heroic, free, knightly forces that one might consider part of a large army or military force. These armies are made of slaves, dedicated to extreme regimentation, strict drill, and discipline above all else. This existence of bondage clearly showcases how Acheron could be best understood as a sort of prison for the immortal souls of those sent to Acheron. Meanwhile, Carceri features wide spaces of different creatures existing within conditions similar to nature. They, while slave to their desires and natures, are not slaves in the traditional sense, nor is their behavior strictly regimented as one would expect for a prison. Furthermore, the inhabitants of Carceri are not understood to be facing a prison sentence for some crime, especially against the powers of the planes, specifically the gods themselves. The Carceri functions as a place of chaotic retribution. It functions similarly to the abyss itself, with constant strife and struggle against the natural forces of predation, with some shred of hierarchy beyond raw power and force. On the other hand, Acheron does feature not simply regions of war, but also prison camps and torture facilities, used to industrialize the routine of torment. This exemplifies their natures, one as chaotic and the other as lawful to a fault. Acheron, not Carceri, is the prison plane of auld. However, it is important to grasp the true conditions of Acheron that cement it as a land of imprisonment: the panopticism. All along Acheron, soldiers, guards, prisoners, officers, and commanders walk side by side with each other. Each observes one another's behavior, and is observed by their superior. Each denizen of Acheron does not simply serve a master, but instead serves two: a public and a private master. No action taken in Acheron can go unnoticed. Each denizen watches for their peer, and their peer in turn watches for them. Each one looks for an opportunity to declare a rule broken by another, a taboo not quashed, a detail out of place. Each opportunity to declare such an infraction provides an opportunity for growth. For power. For domination. And each infraction brings with it an opportunity for liquidation. This vigilance is strictly necessary for life on Acheron. One cannot know who else is watching them, ready to punish them dearly for their misdeeds. That is why the most unerring and strict rule the land of Acheron, and in turn it reveals Acheron's true purposes. Acheron has been used by those with the power of the primordial to relinquish their enemies to a panopticistic society of unending toil and regiment. They can be brought to heed the rules of Acheron as they must the rules of the multiverse, but moreover they can see first hand the forces of punishment in store for those who disobey. This is why, when the denizens of Acheron, particularly the commanders, gain an opportunity to walk the mortal plane, they often create societies of rigid control and domination, where discipline reigns and seditions results in liquidation

[[Locum Arcanum]]
