
## The Fable of Marduk, Nanna-Sin, and Tiamat: A mythological approach to the history of Arcadia and the Mardukian Cult from a psychoanalytic perspective
    

The fables surrounding Marduk's legendary clash with Tiamat can serve instructively on the history and ethos of the Arcadians and their models of morality. It is through the primary psychoanalytic archetypes that we can begin to understand the true meaning contained within the fables and how that mythic saga influences planar geography today. Marduk, representing his traditionalist Ruler and Hero archetypes, was focused on creating order from the chaotic and instituting rules where none existed, so as to ensure the highest goods for all. Opposing him, Tiamat exists in a role as both an Outlaw and a Magician, a force bent on removing order, instituting chaos, and, in that chaos, enriching oneself to the disregard or detriment of the whole. This shows how Tiamat so comfortably resembles the notion of the Dragon archetype and her complete divorce from the elements that prevent simple animal existence. The extension of chaos and the proliferation of a sort of zero-sum game leads to an existence dominated by the ethos of the Dragon, and a life of destruction. Finally, it is with Nanna-Sin that we can fully form the understanding of the Arcadian ethos, for it is Nanna-Sin that in some ways represents the truest betrayal of the Arcadian ethic. Nanna-Sin, and her ilk associative to the powers of the natural, do represent a lower good that is invaluable, but not nearly to the degree professed by them. They believe that these lower goods of the natural and animal should be maintained, and moreso even exalted, such that they are willing to proliferate the same chaotic force, or at least to allow the proliferation of the chaotic forces of the Dragon, despite the costs of a higher good. This is why, in the mythology, Marduk first had to destroy Nanna-Sin and her ilk as a limiting force before he could allow the boldness of his heroic psyche to fully triumph against the Dragon. This ethos, of maintaining the heroic and ruler archetypes against the forces of the chaotic and the true Dragons of our existence, is, or at least was, the corner stone of the Arcadian ethic, and is what truly allowed Marduk to expand his horizons and become the lord of the ruler dragons, them referring to him as Bahamut today. This is what guides his followers in their crusades, not simply against the Dragon herself, but against these limiting forces as well

[[Locum Arcanum]]

#books