
## Wishful Thinking and Golden Chains - How the divine geography of the elemental chaos and its constituents inform sociological and economic stratification in genie society today

**It is through this understanding that we can develop our understanding of the Genies. They each are informed chiefly by their element, and that elemental nature impacts the formation of their society. For example, the Djinni of the Air are typically aloof, playful, and mischievous, but simultaneously are consumed with a laze and gluttony unlike their kin. Meanwhile, the Marids, especially the grandest of them, are obsessed with appearance and are prideful to a fault and are easily the best liars of all the genies, yet they exhibit an ability to inspire and enrapture beyond any of their others. The Dao are innovative and industrious, always looking for new approaches and new ways to tackle a problem, yet them are obsessed with the material and their own riches societally, making them some of the most proliferative users of slavery (though every kind of Genie is know to keep hosts of slaves and servants under their rule). Finally are the Efreet, famous for their power and ability to create the most wonderous materials in all the realms, yet they use this power and these artifacts for war, using their wrath to domineer over all other beings. The most interesting characteristic about the Genies seems to be the one they all share in common: their pride. They each view their way as not simply good for them or their way of life, but best for everyone. The best way of shaping society. The Efreet structure their society around might and power, the Dao around wealth and opulence, the Marids around beauty and cunning, and the Djinni around little at all. And yet they all view themselves as correct and at the top of the hierarchy in all things, often above and beyond the gods themselves. This also informs their use of slavery. The Djinni, while the most affable towards their slaves, are know to use them for entertainment first and foremost. They keep their slaves cared for, and in exchange use them for their own amusement. But, because of their value of freedom, they don't tend to work their slaves too hard and beyond what they can handle. Yet they never see their hypocrisy in valuing freedom with keeping slaves. They, like many of the other Genies, view a slave's lots as part of fate, or how the world ought work. The Marid, ever the prideful, make their slaves wait on them hand and foot. They even tend to keep their slaves in their homes as servants to their every need. They enjoy the use of their powers in forcing them to rely on their masters, less they drown in their underwater cities. The Dao use their slaves as property, and view one's position within society off of their wealth. Any slave could buy their freedom, and any master could lose their fortune and wind up working like a slave. These slaves are treated only to keep them useable as property, or to be resold to the next buyer. Little thought is given to the work or comfort of these slaves, and most are forced to work in their grand mines, searching for gold, gems, and precious materials wherever they may lie. Finally, the Efreet. While not the most proliferative users of slavery, they are the most pernicious in its use. The Efreet use slaves in a way similar to both the Djinni and the Dao, in that they force their slaves to entertain them and to work tirelessly in their grand forges. Yet the entertainment they gain from their slaves is often related to their work, as they relish in their pain as they fight for their very existence in the oppressive heat of the City of Brass, or literally for their lives in the grand colosseums and circuses, observing their slaves fight to stay alive, again relishing in their suffering. These traits are the foundational building blocks with which each society is forged, and with which each societal structure is based**

[[Locum Arcanum]]
