On The Logbook
Friend,
I recommend that, at this juncture, we cease further discussion of such things. They are of clear and present danger to our interests at this time. I understand your concerns regarding the exact nature of the object's aforementioned whereabouts, but I cannot in good conscience, either for your interests or mine, give you further details at this time.
Whatever happened there, and whomever or whatever caused such an event, is certainly not something we should be meddling with. I knew even taking you there was a mistake, and now you've gone and spread the very thing to others. Others who may be in danger themselves. I was unlucky in the first place to have recovered the artifact tertiarily, but to now give the object further credence and life of study is clearly a most dangerous game.
I know you worry about such things, and even more so based on what you saw there, and your interest into that affair with Him and the Dead One, but this path into darkness is best not followed. I oft hear you speak your little syllogisms and litanies, all about the coming ages or what have you. Maybe, just maybe, the interests of all of us would be best served by leaving this mystery, this secret, to itself, rather than looking beyond the Pale, no? 
How can we be so cavalier with our investigations, when we've seen what we have? How can we encourage others, especially those who are of such a mere pitiful understanding of the forces they meddle with, to do the same meddling on our behalf? I know you trust him with your life. He seems a trustworthy fellow. But is he ready? And moreover, are those who walk beside him?
No matter the case, I think it best we retire the issue for good. Let him, and only him, meddle with the thing, see if his mind and his path can find a new angle of intrigue, but after that, particularly if he finds nothing of interest, we put the issue to rest. For good. 
I have one final issue at hand for this communication. What of your odd little project? I understand you wish to reason through what we've seen, to investigate and interrogate the things there, but is this such a wise choice? I say this not to discourage you, just the opposite rather. I simply encourage caution in the matter. I think it best that, if you are to continue on on this investigation of things, especially those hidden and gone, that it would be best to have someone to rely on in the research. Your theories are certainly intriguing, and more so with the rampant growth in understanding we've seen so far. I think it best to continue this investigation together. I look forward to hearing your reply personally, and to investigate this matter together. But please ensure that his matter is left were it lie. You know what I always say about sleeping dogs. Anyways, I shall sign off with some of those godforsaken litanies that you seem so found of. Ahem. 
As the moon rises and the tides with it. 
and as you say, 
as the hours grow long, and the shadows grow short.