The curtains slowly rise, and you see on the stage is a young boy, maybe ten years of age. He wears a blue tunic, and stands before a blue curtain. He looks at it curiously, before stepping through the veil. The whole stage turns a shade of blue, as bright blue lights illuminate the stage as the sound of drums fills the air. The boy steps out of the curtain, this time, surrounded by red curtains now. On the stage are also a pair of bookshelves, which were not there originally. He walks over, and plucks a solitary blue book from the shelf, beginning to read. The stage fades to black, before then fading up again, this time with the boy in exactly the same position, but clearly a bit older, maybe two years. He walks to the blue curtain, reaching behind it, and pulls a younger boy, maybe eight or so years, onto stage. The boy wears a green tunic, and marvels at the scene. He then rushes over to the shelf, pulling the blue book again from the shelf. The older boy seems nervous, but permits the younger's actions. As the young boy reads, he suddenly makes a face of disgust, and begins to rip out the pages of the book, making a noise of glee. The older boy tries to rip the book from his hands, but the younger boy keeps ripping the pages out. Suddenly, the older boy grabs the younger boy by the neck, and begins to slam his face into the shelf, first just once, and then again and again and again. Soon the boy's face is a bloody, messy pulp, coating the older boy in a fine mist of brains and blood. He drops the boy, his body contorting unnaturally against the shelf as his blood soaks into the pages of the destroyed book. The older boy's hands shake as he looks down at them. He begins to shake, burying his face in his bloodied hands. The curtain falls. Raucous, clinking, porcelain applause fills the room.

[[Cresthall Theatre]]