On the stage, set to one side, is a gigantic loom. Covering the stage and hanging down from the rafters, is a large silken tapestry, still connected to the loom. It is hard to make out the direct appearance of the tapestry, but you can make out curious depictions on it. It features a host of vignettes, with some showing men becoming invisible, others throwing fire, and others still making great beasts bend to them. At the loom sit an older, gruff man([[Mystryl]]?), graying in his hair. He sits on a stool, a small girl([[Mystra]]?) sat next to him. She watches as he careful and steadily slides the shuttle through the shed created in the loom. As he does, the plain white cord turns to the bright colors of the tapestry, as if by magic. Suddenly, there is a banging from off the side of the stage. 
"Come out now and face me! Or I'm coming in there and showing you the true power I hold!" a voice shouts from off stage. The man at the loom turns to the young girl, who quickly hides behind the loom. He stands right as a man thunders onto stage. He([[Karsus]]) is disheveled, with a bright shock of white hair on his head. His eyes are differently colored. 
"You deny us our purpose. You deny me my right. You follow [[The Path]] laid out for you, but you remain susceptible to the animals [[Rampancy|rampant]] throughout the forest." The man mutters, drawing a wavy dagger from his belt. "Time to die."
The disheveled man charges the weaver, dagger drawn. The begin to fight over the knife. You see the weaver begin to speak, but his words fall silent. 
"You always think yourself better. Think your path better. We will take it no longer!" the other man shouts. Suddenly, he gets the better of the weaver, plunging the dagger into his chest. As he does, a pool of blood begins to form on the stage, soaking and staining the tapestry. The killer heaves another breath. He then slices the man's throat, causing another flash of crimson to cover him and the tapestry in the room. He then begins to furiously stab and slice and strike at the man, seemingly with abandon. He struggles and finally stops. He is panting for breath as he stands, dropping the dagger. 
He slowly begins to walk over to the loom. "Now, to do what is needed..." he says to himself. 
As he was turning to approach, the little girl ducked out from behind the loom, and wove around his motion. She quickly moved for the knife, taking the cold steel in her hands. The killer slowly sat down before the loom, seemingly ready to destroy it. He reaches his hand back, and suddenly, the girl plunges the knife into his back.([[The Betrayer]]?) He quickly falls over, dead, his blood spattering and pooling all over the place. She stands now before the loom, covered in blood. 
She slowly sits down, and resumes weaving, a solemn look on her face as she resumes.

[[Cresthall Theatre]]